# Visceral Realists

Repository for the Visceral Realists web presence.

Visceral Realism is an open source computer music movement. Anyone is free to
call themselves a Visceral Realist so long as they perform publically following
the requirements established in this repository.

## Organizing a Visceral Realists performance

Organizing a Visceral Realists performance is just like organizing a
performance for any other band or musical act. Simply book your gig as normal
and use the name "Visceral Realists". During the performance observe the
*Specification for Visceral Realism.*

### Specification for Visceral Realism

The key words `MUST`, `MUST NOT`, `REQUIRED`, `SHALL`, `SHALL NOT`, `SHOULD`,
`SHOULD NOT`, `RECOMMENDED`, `MAY`, and `OPTIONAL` in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC
2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119).

Visceral Realism `MUST` be performed by more than one person. Solo performances
are not considered Visceral Realism.

Visceral Realism `MUST NOT` be boring. Visceral Realists `MAY` interpret this
however they choose.

Visceral Realists `MUST` use only open source software during performances.
Commercial software `MUST NOT` be used.

Visceral Realists `MAY` synchronize their computers during performances.

Visceral Realists `MAY` use MIDI controllers. Usage `SHOULD` attempt to be
unconventional, for example traditional "soloing" on a MIDI keyboard `SHOULD`
be discouraged.

Visceral Realists `MUST NOT` use audio hardware devices. Visceral Realists
`MAY` use everyday objects as sound-producing "accessories" during performances
provided they are live-recorded or processed via computer.  For example, an
office stapler is acceptable, a guitar effects pedal or drum machine is not.

Visceral Realists `MUST` show their work, either by using a projector or
printed documentation.

Visceral Realists `SHOULD` submit pull requests to this repository to document
performances and make their code available freely.

Visceral Realism `MUST NOT` be merchandised. Visceral Realists can produce and
sell merch under other names but no one may produce merchandise under the
branding "Visceral Realists".

Visceral Realists as a brand `MUST NOT` be used as a name or handle on social
media platforms. For example @visceralrealists is not permitted to be used by
anyone. Hashtags `MAY` be used instead.

Visceral Realists `MUST` observe the Code of Conduct from this repository
whenever performing or acting publically as a Visceral Realist.

## Contributing

The website in this repository is built minimally with HTML and CSS. Pull
requests from the community are welcome. Just as anyone is free to call
themselves a Visceral Realist, anyone is welcome to contribute to this
repository so long as they observe the following specifications:

1. All pull requests must be a single HTML file.

2. CSS (if any) must be embedded in a `style` element within the `head` of the
   document. There are no stylistic rules on your content.

3. All pages must include a "Become viscerally real" link that will bring the
   user to this code repository.

4. Pull requests will be augmented after the fact with navigation to future
   pages by a repository administrator. You don't have to include this in your
   request.

5. Pull requests containing JavaScript will be closed without consideration.

If you don't know much about HTML and CSS, it's quite easy to get started. Take
advantage of online coding assistants to do the work or ask other Visceral
Realists for assistance. There are no limits to what you can do if you try.

## Credit:

The name "Visceral Realists" describes a poetry movement in the 1998 novel *The
Savage Detectives* by Chilean author Roberto Bola√±o.
